# Pymaceuticals
Created for the University of California, Berkley Data Analytics Boot Camp for the Module 05 Challenge. The purpose of this module is to use Matplotlib in a real-world application.

## Background
You've just joined Pymaceuticals, Inc., a new pharmaceutical company that specializes in anti-cancer medications. Recently, it began screening for potential treatments for squamous cell carcinoma (SCC), a commonly occurring form of skin cancer.

As a senior data analyst at the company, you've been given access to the complete data from their most recent animal study. In this study, 249 mice who were identified with SCC tumors received treatment with a range of drug regimens. Over the course of 45 days, tumor development was observed and measured. The purpose of this study was to compare the performance of Pymaceuticals’ drug of interest, Capomulin, against the other treatment regimens.

The executive team has tasked you with generating all of the tables and figures needed for the technical report of the clinical study. They have also asked you for a top-level summary of the study results.

## Contents
- Provided by the module:
  - pymaceuticals_starter (finished code is also in this file)
  - data/Mouse_metadata
  - data/Study_results

## Analysis
- A total of 248 mice were tested and the ratio of male to female was fairly split at 51% and 49% respectively
- Ramicane and Capumulin showed more consistent results given the smaller standard deviation of 4.84 and 4.99 respectively. Ketapril and Naftisol had more varrying results with a larger standard deviation of 8.29 and 8.13 respectively. The standard deviation of all other drugs are within these ranges
- There is a high positive correlation of 0.84 between mouse weight and tumor volume. As mouse weight increases, so does the tumor volume.
- Infubinol and Ceftamin were generally tested on mice with a high tumor volume, the median of which at about 60 mm3. Capomulin and Ramicane were tested on mice with a smaller tumor volume, the median of which at around 40 mm3.

## Credits
- [UCB Berkely Extension Data Analytics Boot Camp](https://bootcamp.berkeley.edu/data/)  
- Data generated by [Mockaroo](https://mockaroo.com/) LLC (2022). Realistic Data Generator.
- Additional assistance from study groups and office hours with fellow classmates and TAs
